# Evacuation-using-CPU-scheduling
CPU Scheduling is referred to as the process of choosing the programs which are present in the ready state in the memory of CPU and allocating the CPU resources to them. 
Out of all natural disasters one of the hardest to escape is earthquake. Every year there are thousands of deaths worldwide due to earthquake. According to a survey there are more than 25,000 deaths of people per year due to earthquakes all over the world. Per year there are approximately 1,400 earthquake of moderate magnitude of 5 to 6 every year plus 200 earthquake of strong magnitude 6-7 every year. In year 2004 the death toll due to earthquake was recorded to as high as 2,80,000. These stats call to a measure to ensure that we can predict the earthquake in future and moreover be prepared to have counter measure ready so that the casualties could be minimized to a large extent.
To prevent casualties during earthquake we can apply CPU Scheduling which is of five ways: FCFS, SJF, SRTF, PRIORITY, ROUNF ROBIN.
CPU Scheduling is referred to as the process of choosing the programs which are present in the ready state in the memory of CPU and allocating the CPU resources to them. The main aim of CPU scheduling is to improve the efficiency of CPU, to make it fast and make sure that it is not biased to any of the process. Thus it make sure that the CPU is not idle and is processing process all the time so that maximum efficiency can be achieved all the time.
The first course of action whenever an earthquake occur is evacuation strategies to avoid fatal casualties. We will need a proper evacuation plan from which we can finish evacuation in shortest possible time thus we will use SJF in this case as it will tell us which building to reach first, thus if the rescue team follows this, then maximum number of people can be evacuated successfully and the death toll can be reduced.
